TODO.md, before:

# TODO
If you're looking for something to do, look here!
Let us know if you're working on one of the items.

## Package resource
- [ ] getfiles support on debian [bug](https://github.com/hughsie/PackageKit/issues/118)
- [ ] directory info on fedora [bug](https://github.com/hughsie/PackageKit/issues/117)
- [ ] dnf blocker [bug](https://github.com/hughsie/PackageKit/issues/110)
- [ ] install signal blocker [bug](https://github.com/hughsie/PackageKit/issues/109)

## File resource [bug](https://github.com/purpleidea/mgmt/issues/64) [:heart:](https://github.com/purpleidea/mgmt/labels/mgmtlove)
- [ ] chown/chmod support [:heart:](https://github.com/purpleidea/mgmt/labels/mgmtlove)
- [ ] user/group support [:heart:](https://github.com/purpleidea/mgmt/labels/mgmtlove)
- [ ] recurse limit support [:heart:](https://github.com/purpleidea/mgmt/labels/mgmtlove)
- [ ] fanotify support [bug](https://github.com/go-fsnotify/fsnotify/issues/114)

## Svc resource
- [ ] base resource improvements

## Exec resource
- [ ] base resource improvements

## Timer resource
- [ ] increment algorithm (linear, exponential, etc...) [:heart:](https://github.com/purpleidea/mgmt/labels/mgmtlove)

## User/Group resource
- [ ] base resource [:heart:](https://github.com/purpleidea/mgmt/labels/mgmtlove)
- [ ] automatic edges to file resource [:heart:](https://github.com/purpleidea/mgmt/labels/mgmtlove)

## Virt (libvirt) resource
- [ ] base resource improvements [:heart:](https://github.com/purpleidea/mgmt/labels/mgmtlove)
- [ ] port to upstream https://github.com/libvirt/libvirt-go [:heart:](https://github.com/purpleidea/mgmt/labels/mgmtlove)

## Net (systemd-networkd) resource
- [ ] base resource

## Nspawn (systemd-nspawn) resource
- [ ] base resource [:heart:](https://github.com/purpleidea/mgmt/labels/mgmtlove)

## Mount (systemd-mount) resource
- [ ] base resource [:heart:](https://github.com/purpleidea/mgmt/labels/mgmtlove)

## Cron (systemd-timer) resource
- [ ] base resource [:heart:](https://github.com/purpleidea/mgmt/labels/mgmtlove)

## Http resource
- [ ] base resource [:heart:](https://github.com/purpleidea/mgmt/labels/mgmtlove)

## Etcd improvements
- [ ] fix embedded etcd master race

## Torrent/dht file transfer
- [ ] base plumbing

## Language improvements
- [ ] language design
- [ ] lexer/parser
- [ ] automatic language formatter, ala `gofmt`
- [ ] gedit/gnome-builder/gtksourceview syntax highlighting
- [ ] vim syntax highlighting
- [ ] emacs syntax highlighting

## Other
- [ ] better error/retry handling
- [ ] deb package target in Makefile
- [ ] reproducible builds
- [ ] add your suggestions!

Commit message:

todo: Update the TODO file to be more current
We should really try to remember to patch it with fixes when we do them
:)

TODO.md, after:

# TODO
If you're looking for something to do, look here!
Let us know if you're working on one of the items.
If you'd like something to work on, ping @purpleidea and I'll create an issue
tailored especially for you! Just let me know your approximate golang skill
level and how many hours you'd like to spend on the patch.

## Package resource
- [ ] getfiles support on debian [bug](https://github.com/hughsie/PackageKit/issues/118)
- [ ] directory info on fedora [bug](https://github.com/hughsie/PackageKit/issues/117)
- [ ] dnf blocker [bug](https://github.com/hughsie/PackageKit/issues/110)

## File resource [bug](https://github.com/purpleidea/mgmt/issues/64) [:heart:](https://github.com/purpleidea/mgmt/labels/mgmtlove)
- [ ] recurse limit support [:heart:](https://github.com/purpleidea/mgmt/labels/mgmtlove)
- [ ] fanotify support [bug](https://github.com/go-fsnotify/fsnotify/issues/114)

## Svc resource
- [ ] base resource improvements

## Exec resource
- [ ] base resource improvements

## Timer resource
- [ ] increment algorithm (linear, exponential, etc...) [:heart:](https://github.com/purpleidea/mgmt/labels/mgmtlove)

## User/Group resource
- [ ] base resource [:heart:](https://github.com/purpleidea/mgmt/labels/mgmtlove)
- [ ] automatic edges to file resource [:heart:](https://github.com/purpleidea/mgmt/labels/mgmtlove)

## Virt (libvirt) resource
- [ ] base resource improvements [:heart:](https://github.com/purpleidea/mgmt/labels/mgmtlove)

## Net (systemd-networkd) resource
- [ ] base resource

## Nspawn (systemd-nspawn) resource
- [ ] base resource [:heart:](https://github.com/purpleidea/mgmt/labels/mgmtlove)

## Mount (systemd-mount) resource
- [ ] base resource [:heart:](https://github.com/purpleidea/mgmt/labels/mgmtlove)

## Cron (systemd-timer) resource
- [ ] base resource [:heart:](https://github.com/purpleidea/mgmt/labels/mgmtlove)

## Http resource
- [ ] base resource [:heart:](https://github.com/purpleidea/mgmt/labels/mgmtlove)

## Etcd improvements
- [ ] fix embedded etcd master race

## Torrent/dht file transfer
- [ ] base plumbing

## GPG/Auth improvements
- [ ] base plumbing

## Language improvements
- [ ] language design
- [ ] lexer/parser
- [ ] automatic language formatter, ala `gofmt`
- [ ] gedit/gnome-builder/gtksourceview syntax highlighting
- [ ] vim syntax highlighting
- [ ] emacs syntax highlighting

## Other
- [ ] better error/retry handling
- [ ] deb package target in Makefile
- [ ] reproducible builds
- [ ] add your suggestions!
